vitest: add basic docs (#2868)
Effect-TS/effect: packages/vitest/README.md

# Introduction

> Welcome to your guide on testing Effect applications using `vitest` and the `@effect/vitest` package. This guide is designed to help beginners efficiently set up their testing environment and create robust, maintainable tests. By integrating `vitest` with the Effect library, you enhance your testing capabilities, allowing for more expressive tests. Let’s start by setting up the necessary tools and then dive into crafting effective test cases.

Reviewer: This sounds a bit GPT-ish 😅 - maybe the following?

```suggestion
Welcome to your guide on testing Effect applications using `vitest` and the `@effect/vitest` package! `@effect/vitest` is designed to help simplify running Effect-based tests through `vitest`. 

In the guide below, we will first start by setting up the required dependencies. Then, we will dive into a few examples of how to use `@effect/vitest` to create some Effect-based test cases.
```

# Requirements

First, install [`vitest`](https://vitest.dev/guide/) (version `1.6.0` or newer)

```sh
pnpm add -D vitest
```

> Next, install the `@effect/vitest` package. This package integrates the Effect framework with Vitest for enhanced testing capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, install the `@effect/vitest` package which facilitates running Effect-based tests through `vitest`.
```

| Feature         | Description                                                                                            |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `it.effect`     | Automatically injects a `TestContext` (e.g., `TestClock`) when running a test.                         |
| `it.live`       | Runs the test with the live Effect environment.                                                        |
| `it.scoped`     | Allows running an Effect program that requires a `Scope`.                                              |
| `it.scopedLive` | Combines the features of `scoped` and `live`, using a live Effect environment that requires a `Scope`. |
| `it.flakyTest`  | Facilitates the execution of tests that might occasionally fail.                                       |

# Writing Tests with `it.effect`

Here's how to use `it.effect` to write your tests:

```ts
import { it } from "@effect/vitest"

it.effect("test name", () => EffectContainingAssertions, timeout: number | TestOptions = 5_000)
```

> When using `it.effect`, the `TestContext` is automatically injected, simplifying test setup and execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using `it.effect`, the `TestContext` is automatically injected, which allows tests to have access to services designed to facilitate testing (such as the [`TestClock`](#using-the-testclock)).
```

## Testing Successful Operations

> To demonstrate, let's create a test for a function that divides two numbers but fails if the divisor is zero:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a test for a function that divides two numbers but fails if the divisor is zero:
```

```ts
import { expect } from "vitest"
import { Effect } from "effect"
import { it } from "@effect/vitest"

function divide(a: number, b: number) {
  if (b === 0) return Effect.fail("Cannot divide by zero")
  return Effect.succeed(a / b)
}

it.effect("test success", () =>
  Effect.gen(function* () {
    const result = yield* divide(4, 2)
    expect(result).toBe(2)
  })
)
```

## Testing Successes and Failures as `Exit`

To test both success and failure scenarios, convert the outcomes into an `Exit` object using `Effect.exit`:

```ts
import { expect } from "vitest"
import { Effect, Exit } from "effect"
import { it } from "@effect/vitest"

function divide(a: number, b: number) {
  if (b === 0) return Effect.fail("Cannot divide by zero")
  return Effect.succeed(a / b)
}

it.effect("test success as Exit", () =>
  Effect.gen(function* () {
    const result = yield* divide(4, 2).pipe(Effect.exit)
    expect(result).toStrictEqual(Exit.succeed(2))
  })
)

it.effect("test failure as Exit", () =>
  Effect.gen(function* () {
    const result = yield* divide(4, 0).pipe(Effect.exit)
    expect(result).toStrictEqual(Exit.fail("Cannot divide by zero"))
  })
)
```

## Using the TestClock

> The `TestClock` is seamlessly integrated into your tests when you use `it.effect`, making it easy to simulate the passage of time. If you want to execute your tests in the real, live Effect environment instead, you can use `it.live`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using `it.effect`, a `TestContext` is provided to your program which provides access to several services designed to facilitate testing. One such service is the `[TestClock`](https://effect.website/docs/guides/testing/testclock) which is designed to simulate the passage of time. 

**Note**: To utilize the default, non-testing services in your tests you can use `it.live`.
```

Below, you'll find examples illustrating different ways to use time in your tests:

1. **Using `it.live` to show the current time:** This mode uses the real-time clock of your system, reflecting the actual current time.

2. **Using `it.effect` with no adjustments:** By default, this test starts the clock at a time of `0`, effectively simulating a starting point without any elapsed time.

3. **Using `it.effect` and adjusting time forward:** Here, we advance the clock by 1000 milliseconds to test scenarios that depend on the passing of time.

```ts
import { Effect, Clock, TestClock } from "effect"
import { it } from "@effect/vitest"

const logNow = Effect.gen(function* () {
  const now = yield* Clock.currentTimeMillis
  console.log(now)
})

it.live("runs the test with the live Effect environment", () =>
  Effect.gen(function* () {
    yield* logNow // prints the actual time
  })
)

it.effect("run the test with the test environment", () =>
  Effect.gen(function* () {
    yield* logNow // prints 0
  })
)

it.effect("run the test with the test environment and the time adjusted", () =>
  Effect.gen(function* () {

>     yield* TestQlock.adjust("1000 millis")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    yield* TestClock.adjust("1000 millis")
```
